From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hanselman it's. Are we
going to discussion with web
developer and technologists? Scott Hanselman
hosted by Carl Franklin. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number 17.
Recorded Tuesday May 9th, 2006. Support for
Hanselman it's provided by Peter
bloom.com. Start with better controls
finish with better sides online@peterblum.com.
Support is also provided by.net
developers journal. The world's leading.net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott discusses, RSS
and syndication. Hi, this is
Carl Franklin. You're listening to Hansel
minutes and I'm here with
Scott again. And this week
we're talking RSS, right? Scott,
Really simple syndication. Yeah. And
we're talking to Adam and,
and feeds and, and all
of this chaos, that's going
on around syndication of information
using XML and, and you're
at a hotel room. You're
in Pittsburgh. What I am
in beautiful downtown Pittsburgh, and
I'm in a hotel and
it's 11 o'clock at night
and I've just finished up
doing my Annetta talk at
the local Pittsburgh done at
user's group. I got North
Dallas tomorrow and I've got
Dallas on Thursday and I
should be back in town.
And on Friday, it's crazy.
I don't know what I
was thinking. I don't know
Either, but at least I'm,
I'm glad that you got
to squeeze in this show.
So let's jump right in.
What'd you got for us?
Well, so I've been going
back and forth with the
RSS team at Microsoft. This
is the guys that have
got a whole series of
RSS APIs underneath  and
everyone talks about  from
the browser perspective, but there
is a whole RSS subsystem
that's underneath  and Invista
that makes this a makes
RSS first-class on windows and
the RSS team's blogs@theshrinkstir.com EVR.
And there's a number of
things to look at on
their blog. They've got a
section on the RSS team
blog about this, this underlying
sub system. And what they've
got going is pretty interesting.
They're calling him a bronze,
silver and gold. This is
the windows RSS platform, Allah
cart. So basically an existing
application, like a feed demon
or an RSS band, you
know, does all the work,
right? They go out and
they download the RSS. They
download syndicated content using RSS
or Adam as their they're
a description of what they're
need to go get. And
they have their own feed
store. Right. They're actually storing
that information themselves. Okay. Well,
in, in windows after you
install, , there's a thing
called the common feed list,
right? So this is something
that, that windows knows just
like, you know how, when
you very first install windows,
they say, associate your account
with the.net username. So we
can log you into windows
messenger. You know, it's, it's
that level of, of integration
system level, Right? So Ron's
level, the RSS team is
calling is the integration with
that common feed list. That's
a feed demon on RSS
bandit, making the decision to
allow people to look at
that common list of feeds
as well as looking at
whatever feeds they choose, as
well as, you know, an
importing and exporting of your
subscription files. Cool. Right. So
RSS is the, is what
happens on the wire when
you are requesting a feed
and you get your, your
items, but OPM ML, that
is the subscription format that
we use to import it.
An export OPM L is
like a list of a
list of fees. Yeah, exactly.
It's your subscription list? What
do you read your, your,
I used to use sharp
reader now I'm using feed
Damon. Really? Yeah. So it
seems like in the window
World, the, the, the three
big ones are RSS bandit
shrinks.com/evh sharp reader. That's EBI
and feed demon at AVJ.
And I'm a feed demon
guy myself. I've done both
RSS, bandit and sharp reader.
And I'll talk about, there's
a feature that those guys
have that feed demon. Doesn't,
that's pretty a pretty significant,
but right now I'm a
feed demon guy as well.
So a feed demon aggregator
right now is really doing
all the work, right. They
store the feeds, they go
get the feeds. And plus
they're talking to their big
news Gator online world, right?
So they might want to
integrate with When feed lists
let's can we back up
just a little bit can
before we get in there,
you just said something that
the news Gator online world,
what is that? Well, news
Gator is more than just
feed Damon in the newsletter
product, right? There's also net
Newswire there Mac a downloader,
but one of the things
people don't realize when you're
running a feed demon and
you are synchronizing your feeds,
you're not actually going out
to hanselman.com to get your
feed information. You may think
you are, but what's really
happening is if you've synchronized
your folder and feed demon
with what's called news Gator
online, you've got a new
username. You're actually getting that
information from newscaster. So they
cash it. In other words,
they're doing all the work.
It's very interesting. They've decided
to get the feed themself
and then they are normalizing
that feed and providing a,
basically a hash. So they
can tell one item from
another Normalizing, meaning cleaning it
up if it's not right,
or Yeah, a lot of
feeds are, are crap. And
a lot of feeds don't
have goods to make sure
that that, that item within
a feed is a unique
item. Right? And it's difficult
to tell because a lot
of people have created a
lot of really sloppy RSS.
It's difficult to tell when
an item has actually changed.
So news Gator has kind
of a proprietary co you
internal secret sauce that they
use to normalize to some
canonical format, all these different
feeds. And that's how they
tell whether you've read something
on one machine or on
another. I see. So I
can read my feed demon
feeds at home, come to
work. And those same feeds
have been marked red. Nice.
Well, that's great. Until of
course, news Gator had their
recent outage and we were
unable to go get feed,
Right? Single point of failure,
realize I realized that they
were doing the work. I
thought I was going out
and receiving all these feeds
From elsewhere. Yeah, I did
too. I didn't know anything
about this. So that's the
newscaster online world. So back
to the, the, the, the
windows world, this is very
interesting. Basically, Those is doing
the same thing that news
Gator's doing, except they're doing
it on your computer rather
than in some mysterious cloud
somewhere. So we talked about
bronze level, which they're calling
the, just the integrating with
that common feed list. So
there's a service that's available
in API. Silver is integrating
with that list plus using
the platform to download the
feeds. Huh? Right. So there's
actually a download engine that
will do scheduled, downloading, parsing,
merging determination of whether the
item has been new or
updated, all that kind of
secret sauce that that news
Gator does at news Gator
headquarters, the RSS team platform
will do for you. So
you really just call the
RSS tech platform and say,
Hey, give me this feed,
work it out and give
it back to me in
a canonical format. Okay. And
just a couple more things
before we move on to
the, the supporting  for
RSS and the common feed
list. Does that also deal
with enclosures? Yeah. So what
they're doing is they're actually,
So using the background, intelligent
transfer service to the downloading
of the enclosures. Sweet. So
if you, If you decided
to write a new aggregator
today, and you insisted that
someone have this RSS platform
on your machine, you would
have a lot less work
to do than the guys
that have written, you know,
the feed demons and the
sh and the sharp Raiders,
because now you're going to
get a complete RSS platform
with a feed list, right.
A download engine. And then
if you go at the
gold level and actual feed
store, so you don't even
have to hold the feeds.
Now, bronze, silver, and gold.
These are levels of, of
service. These are levels. The
integration that the RSS team
is kind of informally using
on their, on their blog
to describe how much of
the kind of cafeteria plan
of the windows RSS platform
you choose, But you can
choose whichever level you want.
Of course. I see. And,
and the other question I
have for you is, and
I know this is cursory
information, but there's confusion out
there, Adam versus RSS. What
is Adam ATO M? So
Adam Is an as another
take on RSS. There are
a number of problems with
RSS from the point of
view of the XML. Purists,
RSS is so simple that
it's not really a very
good example of how to
use XML, right? It has,
it has no namespace. It
has a lot of features
that are not inside it.
So people tacked them on
like, support for comments, support
for attachments, you know, all
the I everyone's adding on
to, I didn't go into
RSS. So Adam was Sam
Ruby, and a number of
other folks, Ray expression of
the need for a feed.
Yeah. And it's caused a
lot of controversy because from
the point of view of
the, you know, my mom
or my wife, they don't
really care. They are, they
may just now start to
understand the concept of a
feed. Right, Right. But they
don't care what, what it
is. They don't care if
it's Adam or if it's
a, Whatever, you know, there's
an interesting link at shrinks.com/e
w zero. It's a feed
stir comment about the concept
of RSS reach. They say
that about four to 7%
of internet users are using
RSS, but Yahoo says that
30% are using it. It's
the four to 7% that
actually know that it exists.
So when you think about
RSS reach, does that mean
that I am using it?
And I know about it
might mean I don't, my
wife doesn't know about SMTP.
Right. Right. You know, my
mom doesn't care about pop
three email. Exactly. She knows
about email. So measuring RSS
reach new, do you need
to understand what RSS is
to use it? Ideally? No.
So Adam is another kind
of reinvention of that. Now
this has caused controversy because
the gentleman who created RSS
is, is not the friendliest
towards the Adam folks. And
the Adam folks are very
much focused on getting the
standard right. And making it
a proper XML. And then
interestingly, Google had comes along.
And if you go to
shrinks.com/edw one, which is a
code.google.com site, you'll see that
Google, Google has released a
merge, basically their expression of
a called G data, which
is Adam RSS together. Wow.
As a single Protocol. And
also including a number of
things like open search, which
is a thing from Amazon
that allows you to aggregate
search results. And they've got,
they've got data up there
on, on how to use
it. And C sharp and
Java. They've got detailed information
about the protocol. It's, it's
really, it's very clever. You
can, you can use the
format, not just to get
information, but also to create
new entries. When you have
a nice clean format, like
Adam, a lot of people
started coming up with ways
to use, use Adam to
create a new entry. So
rather than just doing an
HTTP, get to get the
information, you would actually post
an entry. And that would
be like doing an, you
know, an insert. So you,
do you see Adam taking
over RSS as the default
standard for feeds or what's
the story there? Well, see,
everyone has pledged support for
both and that's where it
gets sloppy. So now we're
just, we're going to think
feeds. But what I think
is going on is that
Adam is the beta max
Of the formats where it's
RSS is the more popular
one. Adam might be better,
but it's not as popular.
Exactly. And that's, I mean,
that's the best. And you
know, that's just the way
it is. And whenever there's
us, and then there's blue
Ray and there's HD HD
DVD, or whatever, one's better
and one will succeed. But
you know, when you get
somebody like Google that says,
well, there's nice things. I'm
going to take, take a
little here, take a little
there. And then they decided
to use it in their
new Google calendar as their,
the format, the Google calendar
speaks. It's pretty hot. Now
where's Microsoft. I mean, Google
has got their answer to
Adam and RSS. Where's Microsoft
in this. Well, Microsoft has
As proposed a number of
different, you know, over the
last couple of months, proposed
extending things in this way,
in that way. But from
my point of view, the
only people who have successfully
changed RSS, you know, in
any fundamental, substantial way is
iTunes for adding all the
different iTunes specific feeds tags
rather, and, and Google. So
I see, I see Microsoft
making it easier for all
of us to use RSS,
but I haven't seen a
lot of clever changes. Yeah.
Was no innovation really from
them in, I wouldn't say
innovation, they're not innovating in
the protocol. That's what I
mean, They've come up with
a number of different things,
their expression of what a
list is and stuff like
that. But it was kind
of released to two pans.
I mean, the protocol, that's
what I'm talking about. Yeah.
Yeah. But what they're doing
is, you know, when you,
when you just go and
write a little bit of
code three lines of code
and.net to go and say,
give me some RSS, it's
not going to be smart.
It's gonna, it's gonna beat
on the, on the server.
And it's gonna ask for
that over and over and
over. And maybe you set
it every 30 seconds. I
mean, you know how this
is, you get stupid aggregators.
They beat on franklins.net. Yeah.
If someone could say, give
me a feed and windows
would handle conditional gets and
can handle being clever about
scheduling an update in the
background. Right. Bandwidth friendly using
all the appropriate HTTP protocol
things to, to say, I've
already got this cash. I
just want this little bit.
Yeah. That's just gonna make
everyone wins. So Microsoft's innovating
in the API space right
here. That's digging around in
the RSS team. Blog is
a really, a really useful
thing to do, I think.
Okay. Okay. What's next? So
there's a, I wanna just
Talk about a number of
different things that are going
on. First, the three, like
I said, the three RSS
readers that I've really noticed
in the, in the windows
fat client space or a
news Gator at a shrink
stir EVG are suspended at
EVH sharp reader at EBI.
Now RSS banded and sharp
reader support something really neat
that a news gate news,
Gator, and feed demon and
feed him. And as DVJ
don't support and that's RSS
comments, not a lot of
blog engine support this, but
this allows you to get
another RSS feed. That is
the comment on a particular
post and both are suspended
in news Gator. When the
backing a server supports, it
will show like threaded discussions,
like an NTP, like a
newsgroup appearing underneath the, The
post. So like DAS blogs
supports RSS comments. Now this
is something that a lot
of blogging engines don't support.
And I think it's a
damn shame because, you know,
I hate to visit a
site just to find that
if anyone commented on stuff.
Yeah. So interestingly, and this
is where I get frustrated.
There's a, a website called
co comment.com at  dot
com slash V K. These
guys have a weird little
JavaScript hack that you put
in your bookmark list. And
just before, you're about to
leave a comment, you push
a button and they insert
some JavaScript on the page
of whatever blog you're visiting.
And then when you submit
your comment, they grab the
submission and they submit it
to themselves Was as well,
huh? This one, They'll keep
a list of all the
blogs you're commenting on and
give you a single, your
conversations, RSS feed, which is
a list of all the
different feeds that your comments,
rather than you look nice
as a concept, but using
JavaScript and Ajax and insisting
that someone clicked on a
button in order to cause
it and to, to basically
ignore a perfectly good spec
Says comments. Well, I like
the idea though. I mean,
at least it shows that
somebody's thinking enough to come
up with a solution in
the first place. Yeah. I
think it shows there's a
problem. Yeah. There's definitely a
problem. And I mean, don't
you agree that, you know,
it's hard to get involved
in the conversation. I agree.
Yeah. It Def indefinitely. You're
right. About pushing the button.
That's ridiculous. It should just
happen. And it would be
even nicer if they would
detect what blogs support RSS
comments, and then pull it
as a data feed. Yeah.
So I think if more
aggregators started supporting RSS comments
and that became a formal,
a formal thing that people
cared about would be, we'd
be A nice spot. So
I got to ask you
as a developer of, of
DAS blog, does DAS blog
support RSS comments? Yeah. So
if you go up on
my blog supports both RSS
comments and I also really
support for co comment. So
I have this post on
my blog where I complain
about how co comments sucks.
And then at the very
end, I really support for
it. You know, because it's
really not about my opinion.
It's about if it works
or not. Right. I mean,
this is the thing, people,
you know, VHS is a
crap format, but videotapes worked
for a very long time,
right? So who are we
to complain? Yeah. Now on
the, on the website, there's
a lot of really cool
stuff that you can do
with, with RSS and, and
getting involved in the conversation.
That's, that's more than just
getting feeds. You can take
a look at share dot
dot org. It shrinks
your.com/avl. This is a thing
that Dave Weiner, the creator
of RSS is doing, where
he encourages you to upload
your own PML, your list
of subscriptions, and then he'll
apply an algorithm to it,
and then give you suggestions
of other blogs that might
be like the kinds of
stuff that you like to
read. Wow. He'll also connect
you with people who may
have similar interests with you
based on this kind of
algorithm that he comes up
with. Wow. So I actually
found out that a buddy
of mine, Mitch, Denny is
listed as number two as
the guy who has subscriptions
most like me, which makes
sense. Cause he He's a.net
guy. I like Mitch. Denny's
a shrink, stir a component
that automatically shrinks to rises
URLs that you copied to
the clipboard. He's a good
guy. Yeah. He is. Now
a lot of people who
have blogs want to be
able to find out if
people are in fact talking
about them, right? So there's
a number of different ways
to find out if you're,
if you're being talked about.
And one of them that's
really interesting is that blog
lines.com blog lines is an
online aggregator. So rather than
having a fat client, you
log in and you look@yoursubscriptionsandatbloglinesdotcomslashcitationsatshrinks.com
slash EVM, you can type
in the address for your
blog. And it will find
within its list of blogs,
other folks that are talking
about you. Cool. Now there
are, there are ways for
blogs to communicate to each
other, like with things like
trackbacks where I would post
about you, Carl and my
blog would then send a
little notice to your blog,
right? And let, let you
know, we're talking about you,
right? But most, most blogs
don't support that I'm afraid.
And sometimes those are lost
and a lot of conversations
occur and you don't get
to jump in and say,
Oh, Hey, I've got an
opinion about that. Right? That
blog lines.com/citations is, is an
interesting search engine. I've been
using that more and more.
Another one is ice rocket.
This is Mark Cuban's company.
And they've got an interesting
thing@atatrendingsiteatshrinker.com slash EVP. This is
ice rocket. And they'll tell
you, given some terms, how
are they trending in the
blogosphere? You know, are more
people talking about David Blaine
now than before? Or how
are people talking about monad
or PowerShell? And what is
the trend of these different
terms over time? It's funny,
you mentioned David Blaine. I
was just reading a, I
just read a new story
about him, where he almost
died. Trying to set the
record for holding your breath
after being trapped under water
for a week. Yeah. He
only made it for seven
minutes and the record was
eight minutes, 59 right now,
another interesting place to get
more information about blogs you
might want to read or
other people's subscription files is
Chris Parillo is gotta be
GA D a B E
gotta be. If you can't
remember that it's at
dot com slash E V
N as in Nancy EVN.
And his is a really
interesting service that is almost
entirely based on the URLs.
It's kind of like delicious
or Technorati where you get
to type in extensions on
the, in the URL. So
if you go like gotta
be a slash D slash
Hanselman, then it'll go and
it'll search like 200 different
sources that he pulls from,
aggregate them. And he'll give
you an RSS feed that
tells you where the word
Hanselman appears or where the
word Carl Franklin appears somewhere. And
then he will also create
an an OPL file that
you can import into your
reader and monitor things. Now
that can be done for
ego purposes, you can go
to shrinks.com/evo and see who's
talking about me, but think
about if you were a
marketer or a PR person,
and you wanted to find
out if people were talking
about the competition, talking about
a product that you're trying
to promote, these are the
kinds of things that you
could generate reports on and
let your clients know that
you are, you know, focused
and, and making substantive change
in the blogosphere, getting people
talking about their stuff. Yeah.
Other places you can find
more information. Our feed stir.com.
This is another nice blog
search engine at strange.com/ebq. And
then of course there's Google's
own blog. Search it, Eva
Z. Now interestingly blogs, search.google.com.
Their Google blogs shirts is
kind of lame. I have
not found it to be
that clever. And I have
consistently not got good results
from it. I don't know
if you've tried that When
or not. Yeah, I agree.
The many Google properties, that
one just not so much
a Google's online reader. Also
the google.com/reader at EDW, not
so much another nice one's
called pub sub pub sub
pub sub at  dot
com slash E V Y
pub sub will also create
search results, oriented RSS feeds
for you looking on particular
tags, really RSS being so,
so flexible. And so loose
has really lended lent itself
to this notion of tagging.
We talked about delicious and
how you can tag information
Technorati is another site where
you can tag posts with
the topics that give some
semantic meaning to it, to
a topic rather than the,
the blog engine. Having to
look at the content and
decide whether or not it's
about XML or whether it's
about.net, you actually explicitly tag
it with that information. And
then these other engines can
use that context to decide
whether our searches are relevant
to you. I really like
Technorati love it. I've been
using it for It's a
little complicated and there's so
much content up there because
you know, the contents really
being built by the users.
They're adding information, they're adding
new tech Eggs every day.
Yep. And there, they're also
experimenting with some, you know,
a lot of, I don't
know, almost like marketing. There's
a lot of banner ads
and stuff up there. Now
they're popping up. It's getting
kind of flooded. It's a
little disturbing when, when the
site's not so clean, as
it used to be right.
Used to be clean. Now,
have you looked at, you've
looked@live.com. Yeah. I love live.com
and that, that, that site,
I wasn't feeling it. Yeah.
Early on when it was
like, you know, it used
to be what surf was
it? search.com or it's like
a S yeah, but it's,
it's, it's working so nicely
in Firefox now. It's very
clean. It's, it's so easy
to add an RSS feed
off of live.com. You know,
I tell ya, I like
Google, but you know, the
call of the new stuff
is, is, is hard to
ignore. And the, the nice
clean interface of live.com, you
know, I may switch it
to my homepage. Wow. And
that would be it. That
would be quite the coup
Google has been my homepage
for a very long time.
Wow. Now have, did you
know, you can develop stuff
for live.com. They've got these
live.com web parts. Yeah. Did
you, did you attend mix
a mix? I've got a
mix. Wish I could, but
I couldn't. I had a,
I had a wife with
the who couldn't walk syndrome.
That'll do it. Yeah. Everyone
I talked to said it
was just fantastic. That's what
I heard. If you've grown
tired of tech, ed or
PDC, there was just a
totally different tone. It mix
those six and they've released
all of the sessions at
shrinks, your.com/evs. This is it
sessions that makes those six.com.
They've got the sessions, the
demos, PowerPoints, and everything. So
if you wanted to do
some experimentation to actually develop
against like the RSS teams,
API APIs, you can download
internet Explorer, seven beta to
take a look at some
of the RSS teams slides.
They've got sample code for
an RSS screensaver. You could
probably write an aggregator in
a couple of hundred lines
of code pretty easily. Yeah.
I've spent some serious time
going over the sessions that
mix Oh six.com. Now you're
writing. I was just going
to say, you're writing an
aggregator. I am. Yeah, it's
called pop catcher. And you
can download it. Plop catcher.com.
It's in alpha right now,
but it's a.net aggregator. It
doesn't work with RSS text,
but it's all it's really
for managing podcasts and podcasts
and downloads in it. I'm
thinking as much about what
to do with the podcast.
Once you've downloaded them, the
downloading itself has done with
HDDP or a bit torn.
I'm actually embedding in the
next version. Anyway, I'm embedding
micro torrent, utorrent.com as a
DLL into the application. I
actually got a permission from
the author of micro torrent
to do this as an
exclusive thing. Micro Torreon is
a BitTorrent client. That's 155
K totally standalone doesn't require
any installation. You know, you
turned me on to uTorrent,
to micro torrent. Yeah, you
totally spoiled me, man. You,
I had, you know, this
was actually the first tool
that I hadn't heard of
yet. Wow. I might crash
Utorrent.com. This thing kicks complete,
but It totally rocks. Doesn't
it? It is. It is
so small. And so tight
allows you such flexibility and
the downloading of the torrents.
And you know, they've got
like places where you can
download a TV shows that
you've missed. Like right now
I'm downloading that David Blaine
show, Which is perfectly legal
because it's public TV. Is
it? Yeah. It's legal. That's
critical to download TV shows
that you've, that you, Cause
I've got it taped at
home on the TiVo. I
just can't get into my
house right now. I can't
VPN into my TiVo. At
this point, I was thinking
about using orb.com. We talked
about on a previous show,
but I've got very limited
bandwidth right now. So I'm
just trying to get this
updated via torrent. So pop
catcher uses.net. Of course. And
as I said, I'm concerned
just as much as about
what to do with the
podcasts once I have download
them. So I have for
each feed, I have individual
settings can put each feet
in a different folder. You
get to choose where each
one goes, not some arbitrary
folder. You get to determine
how many days old they
should be. In other words,
if you say seven, seven
days old, first thing that
happens is when you go
to the feed, when, when
the feed goes and it
looks through all the items,
it'll only download things you
don't have that are less
than seven days old. And
also before it runs, it
looks on your hard disc
in that directory. And it
says, Hey, are there any,
you know, podcasts here? Are
there any MP3 files or
whatever that are more than
seven days old, Delete them?
You know, it would be
very cool if you made
a, an import. So I
could take all of my
pod. I've got like 25
podcast in iTunes, but iTunes
completely takes over my system
when I go and load
it up and it tries
to update its podcast, right?
It'd be awesome. If you
could be the alternative to
iTunes podcast, you could import
my stuff. And then when
it comes down, spit it
back into iTunes. Also the
next version is going to
have plugin support. So I'm
encouraging dotnet plugin writers to
get control before the feed
gets a checked and before
and after an item gets
downloaded. So you can do
whatever you want with the
item. Of course, I give
you all the metadata about
it. Very cool. Yep. And
you know, one thing that
bugs me as I wrote,
wrote this, I get an
email once in a while
that says, I'm having a
problem with pop catcher. There's
a bug. And I'm getting
this error on this particular
feed. And the error is
like invalid character in path
or something like that. So
I look@thefeedandipopitintofeedvalidatoratfeedvalidatordotorgandfeedvalidator.org is a site
that's set up to look
through the RSS and determine
whether or not it's valid,
according to the rules of
RSS. And you know, these
there's just flagrant violations of
the protocol in there. And
you know, like they're, they're
appending onto the MP3 file,
extra meta information because it's
actually not downloading an MP
three file. It's like downloading
some, you know, custom, you
know, there's some custom handler
on the web server side.
That's looking at that and
validating it somehow, but there's
extra stuff. And it's like,
you know, my podcast dot
MP3 question, Mark blahdy, blahdy,
blah, which is just not
allowed. So, so I'm basically
having, you know, and then
people are telling me that,
you know, my, my program
has a bug when, because
I'm not being, you know,
forgiving enough. And my question
is, you know, my question
to you, you're a programmer.
How far should I go
on this? I mean, how,
how far should I allow
people to violate flagrantly the
RSS protocol? Well, This is
the thing that's so ironic.
I mean, what is H
what is XHTML XHTML was
everyone who was sick of
dealing with flaky and weird
HTML, parsers. Remember HTML is
not well formed. Right? Know,
I remember back in the
day when you'd get six
or seven tables deep, and
then Netscape four would blow
up because you were doing
too many crazy things with
one pixel gifts, right? And
XHTML is, is, is everyone's
all the programmers backlash. So
now what's happened is RSS
was not very tight. Initially
people break all sorts of
basic rules of encoding. And
if you look at some
of the, the list of
developer lists of tools like
RSS, bandit, and you can
watch them struggle with the,
well, gosh, this popular blogging
engine makes really crappy RSS,
do we three support them
or do we risk alienating
them? Right. You know, how
do you do you put
pressure on them? And I
think that's why Microsoft is
putting all of that, that
RSS spackle into the platform.
They're saying it's really not
our issue. It shouldn't be
your issue, right. Feeds are
going to be crap. And
just as a, just as,
there's not a button to
push an internet Explorer that
says, don't show me crappy
HTML sites. And cause if
you did that half the
half, the web would stop
working. The same thing is
the issue with RSS one
day, it will be, it
will be better, but I
don't think we'll get more
than 80% of the feeds
valid. Yeah. One of the
things that I had thought
of doing was firing off
an email to the webmaster,
which is a field in
the RSS document itself. And
there's also, there's a couple
email addresses that are in
the RSS if done correctly.
And, and just saying that,
you know, this feed right
here is not well formed.
I suggest you check out
feed, validator.org, you know, and
clean up this problem. But
you know, that would be
a little rude. I think,
especially if they, you know,
hundreds or thousands of people
subscribed to their feeds and
all of a sudden they're
getting pummeled with co-op catcher
emails. Yeah. If I got
any Email, every time someone
got a four Oh four
on my site, it would
be a bummer. I know,
but you know, I seriously
think about it like that
with, with great pleasure. I
would take great pleasure in
doing that. Of course. It
would be horrible though. Yeah.
All right. What else we
got? We had at the
DAS blog team recently made
a change in our, in
our engine kind of a
change. We didn't think it
was a big deal where
we would got rid of
HTTP colon slash slash. And
we switched all of our
feeds to feed colon slash
slash. This is a pluggable
protocol that just like mail
to colon and things like
that, where you click on
a link and it launches
an external program feed colon
slash slash was our way
of making it easier to
subscribe to DAS blog, feed
you click, and it pops
up in your default agri.
Yep. Lot of people freaked
out, right? They weren't, they
weren't feeling it. But then
again, Scott, you know, we
were just, we were producing
a show for blue P
for EMS Eastern mountain sports
called blue pizza. And I
can't give you the URL
yet, cause it's not officially
open, but we had the
RSS links to subscribe in
there and you know, they
sent it around the company
and they got back all
this feedback. That's like this
download link isn't working. It's
just a bunch of characters
on my, so, you know
what I mean? It's, it's
kind of the thing that
syndication in general need. It
requires a certain level of
education on the part of
the user. And I think
that's what this, you know,
feed colon slash slash link
is really trying to avoid
is that it, you know,
Hey, let's try to make
it. You've got an aggregator.
All you need to do
is install it. And if
it, and hopefully it'll respond
to this type, Well, I'm,
I'm going back and forth
with it because the issue
is that fi colon slash
slash works great. If you
have an aggregator that supports
it, like are suspended or
like feed demon. But if
you have an online aggregator
like blog lines, that's not
helpful at all. Right. Interestingly
I E seven beta two,
doesn't support it. And I've
got a very interesting back
and forth I've had with
the RSS team at Microsoft
about why they don't feel
that it's an unnecessary feature.
Yeah. So they're not thinking
that they're going to support
it. And they actually have
some built in code that
gleans whether or not what
they were about to download
is a feed. Yeah. So
not only do they have
to deal with malformed XML,
they also have to deal
with wrong mime types. They
have to actually look at
the first, you know, some
number of bites. And, and
guess if this is RSS,
There's a way that I'm
going to be addressing this
with pop catcher, which is
to make a, a, a,
a file extension, a mime
file extension that a pop
catcher understands. So instead in,
you know, if you have
pop catcher, click this button
and, and it will download
that file, which just essentially
includes the RSS. Right. So
you're basically getting around it
by saying, well, I don't
know about you guys, meaning
everybody else who is kind
of in the middle of
the Chaos, nor do I
want to establish a standard.
I just want, you know,
here's what I just want
it to work. Right? Yeah.
That's why I really think
that the feed colon slash
slash was a great idea.
And I'm, I'm going to
post on my blog as
soon as they give me
the, okay. The, the conversation
that we've had, it's been,
it's been very interesting. I
think it's just going to
come down to, they're going
to decide, and I'm going
to complain about it, but
I don't see how you
can get rid of feed
Collins slash last, just like
you can't get rid of
mail to our, you know,
real players, our STP and,
and all those other plugable
protocols. Right. Unfortunately, I can
see where they, they would
probably come from a, from
a position of, well, we
don't know if we're going
to call them feeds, right?
Yeah. Well, ultimately I think
the issue is that they
want to support more than
one aggregator on the system
because the RSS team is
not trying to be an
aggregator. They're trying to be
a platform and putting feed
colon slash slash undermines that,
that concept of a platform
and indicates that there is
one official feed handler on
this machine. What about just
RSS as an extension? Yeah.
Yeah. That's a good idea.
I've always thought that.dot XML
would be a bad idea.
I don't see why a
mime type wouldn't work, but
so many web servers return
the wrong mime type. And
officially you're supposed to return.
I think it's like application
slash XML, which just tells
you it's XML. It doesn't
tell you that it's RSS.
Okay. Well, Scott, that's a
show. Thanks For slogging it
out in Pittsburgh there. And
your hotel room. Hope you
didn't wake anybody up. It's
about midnight now. Time to
go to bed and then
do it all again tomorrow.
All right. And we'll talk
to you next time on
handsome. .